docs/baseline.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Baseline System
parent: CHiME-9 Task 1 - MCoRec
nav_order: 3
---

# Baseline System

## Overview

The baseline system for CHiME-9 Task 1 addresses the challenging problem of **Multi-Modal Context-aware Recognition (MCoRec)** in single-room environments with multiple concurrent conversations. The system processes 360° video and audio recordings to both transcribe each speaker's speech and identify which speakers belong to the same conversation.

## Task Requirements

The baseline system provides an initial framework for addressing two interconnected challenges:

1. **Individual Speaker Transcription**: Generate time-aligned transcripts (`.vtt` files) for each target speaker within specified evaluation intervals
2. **Conversation Clustering**: Group participants into their respective conversations by generating speaker-to-cluster mappings

**Input**: Single 360° video with audio, plus bounding boxes identifying target participants  
**Output**: Per-speaker transcriptions and conversation cluster assignments

## Baseline System Architecture

The baseline system is provided at [Github](https://github.com/MCoRec/mcorec_baseline). Please refer to the README therein for information about how to install and run the system.

![](images/mcorec-baseline.png)

### Core Components

#### 1. Active Speaker Detection
- **Purpose**: Determines which speaker is actively speaking at any given moment
- **Baseline Model**: [A Light Weight Model for Active Speaker Detection](https://github.com/Junhua-Liao/Light-ASD)
- **Input**: Face crop video and audio extracted from the 360° video
- **Output**: Active speaker detection scores for each frame of the corresponding track video. These scores are used to determine when a speaker is talking, allowing the audio-visual speech recognition system to run only during the speaking segments.

#### 2. Face Landmark Detection and Mouth Cropping
- **Purpose**: Extracts mouth region from face crop videos.
- **Models**: 
  - Face detector based on [RetinaFace](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.00641)
  - 2D facial landmark detector based on [FAN (Face Alignment Network)](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_ICCV_2017/papers/Bulat_How_Far_Are_ICCV_2017_paper.pdf)
- **Input**: Face crop video and audio extracted from the 360° video
- **Output**: Mouth crop video with precise mouth region extraction
- **Processing Pipeline**: Referenced from [Auto-AVSR/preparation](https://github.com/mpc001/auto_avsr/tree/main/preparation) repository

#### 3. Video Segmentation and Chunking
- **Purpose**: Splits long mouth crop videos into smaller segments (≤15 seconds) based on active speaker detection scores for efficient processing
- **Algorithm**: 
  - **Hysteresis Thresholding**: Uses onset and offset thresholds to identify speech regions from ASD scores
  - **Duration Filtering**: Removes short speech segments and fills short gaps between speech regions
  - **Segment Splitting**: Divides long continuous speech regions into manageable chunks
- **Input**: Mouth crop video and active speaker detection scores
- **Output**: List of video segments with start/end timestamps

#### 4. Audio-Visual Speech Recognition
- **Purpose**: Combines audio and visual cues to transcribe speech into text for each video segment
- **Baseline Model**: [Cocktail-Party Audio-Visual Speech Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02178)
- **Input**: Segmented mouth crop videos with corresponding audio streams and timestamps
- **Output**: Time-aligned transcriptions in WebVTT format with start/end timestamps for each segment

#### 5. Time-based Conversation Clustering
- **Purpose**: Groups speakers into their respective conversations based on temporal speaking patterns and overlap analysis
- **Input**: Active speaker detection scores
- **Processing Workflow**:
  - **Speaker Activity Extraction**: Uses ASD scores from the Active Speaker Detection component to identify time segments where each speaker is actively talking
  - **Conversation Score Calculation**: For each pair of speakers, computes interaction scores based on temporal overlap patterns:
    - Simultaneous speech (overlap) → indicates different conversations
    - Sequential speech (non-overlap) → indicates same conversation
    - Score formula: `1 - (overlap_duration / total_duration)`
  - **Distance Matrix Construction**: Converts conversation scores to distances for clustering:
    - Higher scores (less overlap) = smaller distances = higher probability of same conversation
    - Lower scores (more overlap) = larger distances = lower probability of same conversation
  - **Agglomerative Clustering**: Hierarchically groups speakers using the distance matrix
- **Output**: Speaker-to-cluster mapping in JSON format (`speaker_to_cluster.json`)

This baseline establishes a reference implementation that participants can build upon and improve through more sophisticated approaches to better handle the challenging multi-conversation scenarios with high speech overlap and complex acoustic environments.

## Results

The results for the baseline model on dev subset are the following:

- Average Conversation Clustering F1 score: 0.8553
- Average Speaker WER: 0.5474
- Average Joint ASR-Clustering Error Rate: 0.3550

Commit message:

refine the inference for more baseline. address some feedback in docs. add baseline system performance.

docs/baseline.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Baseline System
parent: CHiME-9 Task 1 - MCoRec
nav_order: 3
---

# Baseline System

## Overview

The baseline system for CHiME-9 Task 1 addresses the challenging problem of **Multi-Modal Context-aware Recognition (MCoRec)** in single-room environments with multiple concurrent conversations. The system processes 360° video and audio recordings to both transcribe each speaker's speech and identify which speakers belong to the same conversation.

## Task Requirements

The baseline system provides an initial framework for addressing two interconnected challenges:

1. **Individual Speaker Transcription**: Generate time-aligned transcripts (`.vtt` files) for each target speaker within specified evaluation intervals
2. **Conversation Clustering**: Group participants into their respective conversations by generating speaker-to-cluster mappings

**Input**: Single 360° video with audio, plus bounding boxes identifying target participants  
**Output**: Per-speaker transcriptions and conversation cluster assignments

## Baseline System Architecture

The baseline system is provided at [Github](https://github.com/MCoRec/mcorec_baseline). Please refer to the README therein for information about how to install and run the system.

![](images/mcorec-baseline.png)

### Core Components

#### 1. Active Speaker Detection
- **Purpose**: Determines which speaker is actively speaking at any given moment
- **Baseline Model**: [A Light Weight Model for Active Speaker Detection](https://github.com/Junhua-Liao/Light-ASD)
- **Input**: Face crop video and audio extracted from the 360° video
- **Output**: Active speaker detection scores for each frame of the corresponding track video. These scores are used to determine when a speaker is talking, allowing the audio-visual speech recognition system to run only during the speaking segments.

#### 2. Face Landmark Detection and Mouth Cropping
- **Purpose**: Extracts mouth region from face crop videos.
- **Models**: 
  - Face detector based on [RetinaFace](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.00641)
  - 2D facial landmark detector based on [FAN (Face Alignment Network)](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content_ICCV_2017/papers/Bulat_How_Far_Are_ICCV_2017_paper.pdf)
- **Input**: Face crop video and audio extracted from the 360° video
- **Output**: Mouth crop video with precise mouth region extraction
- **Processing Pipeline**: Referenced from [Auto-AVSR/preparation](https://github.com/mpc001/auto_avsr/tree/main/preparation) repository

#### 3. Video Segmentation and Chunking
- **Purpose**: Splits long mouth crop videos into smaller segments (≤15 seconds) based on active speaker detection scores for efficient processing
- **Algorithm**: 
  - **Hysteresis Thresholding**: Uses onset and offset thresholds to identify speech regions from ASD scores
  - **Duration Filtering**: Removes short speech segments and fills short gaps between speech regions
  - **Segment Splitting**: Divides long continuous speech regions into manageable chunks
- **Input**: Mouth crop video and active speaker detection scores
- **Output**: List of video segments with start/end timestamps

#### 4. Audio-Visual Speech Recognition
- **Purpose**: Combines audio and visual cues to transcribe speech into text for each video segment
- **Input**: Segmented mouth crop videos with corresponding audio streams and timestamps
- **Output**: Time-aligned transcriptions in WebVTT format with start/end timestamps for each segment
- **Baseline Model** 
  - **AV-HuBERT CTC/Attention**: [Cocktail-Party Audio-Visual Speech Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02178)
  - **Auto-AVSR**: [Auto-AVSR: Audio-Visual Speech Recognition with Automatic Labels](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.14307)
  - **Muavic-EN**: [MuAViC: A Multilingual Audio-Visual Corpus for Robust Speech Recognition and Robust Speech-to-Text Translation](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.00628)


#### 5. Time-based Conversation Clustering
- **Purpose**: Groups speakers into their respective conversations based on temporal speaking patterns and overlap analysis
- **Input**: Active speaker detection scores
- **Processing Workflow**:
  - **Speaker Activity Extraction**: Uses ASD scores from the Active Speaker Detection component to identify time segments where each speaker is actively talking
  - **Conversation Score Calculation**: For each pair of speakers, computes interaction scores based on temporal overlap patterns:
    - Simultaneous speech (overlap) → indicates different conversations
    - Sequential speech (non-overlap) → indicates same conversation
    - Score formula: `1 - (overlap_duration / total_duration)`
  - **Distance Matrix Construction**: Converts conversation scores to distances for clustering:
    - Higher scores (less overlap) = smaller distances = higher probability of same conversation
    - Lower scores (more overlap) = larger distances = lower probability of same conversation
  - **Agglomerative Clustering**: Hierarchically groups speakers using the distance matrix
- **Output**: Speaker-to-cluster mapping in JSON format (`speaker_to_cluster.json`)

This baseline establishes a reference implementation that participants can build upon and improve through more sophisticated approaches to better handle the challenging multi-conversation scenarios with high speech overlap and complex acoustic environments.

## Results

The results for the baseline systems on dev subset are the following:

| System | AVSR Model | MCoRec finetuned | Conversation Clustering | Conversation Clustering F1 Score | Speaker WER | Joint ASR-Clustering Error Rate |
|--------|------------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------------------------|-------------|----------------------------------|
| BL1 | [AV-HuBERT CTC/Attention](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02178) | No | Time-based | 0.8153 | 0.5536 | 0.3821 |
| BL2 | [Muavic-EN](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.00628) | No | Time-based | 0.8153 | 0.7180 | 0.4643 |
| BL3 | [Auto-AVSR](https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.14307) | No | Time-based | 0.8153 | 0.8315 | 0.5211 |
| BL4 | [AV-HuBERT CTC/Attention](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.02178) | Yes | Time-based | 0.8153 | 0.4990 | 0.3548 |

For detailed implementation and inference instructions, please refer to the baseline repository on [GitHub](https://github.com/MCoRec/mcorec_baseline).
